The first thing we have to do
is define the concept, the
term, because you may not have
the whole clear.
Cash flow, cash flow, cash
flow, cash flow, or cash
flow, is the amount
of cash generated in
the company over a period
of time.
That is, at the end of the day
is the difference between all charges
and all payments.
The company buys commodities,
invests in fixed assets, pays
employees, pays suppliers,
receives loans, returns
them, pays interest, pays
dividends, many cash flow
movements occur, and
cash flow is the difference
between all of
them.
Let's compare the net profit,
which is a magnitude you know,
with the cash flow and so we'll
see what the differences are and why
you need to use one or another magnitude
depending on the circumstances.
The first thing, net profit is
the difference between all income
and all expenses, and cash flow
is the difference between all
charges and all payments.
Net profit and profit magnitudes,
such as EBITDA, gross profit,
gross margin, etc., are
accounting magnitudes.
I mean, these are subjective
dimensions.
Why is?
Because they depend on the interpretation
of the rules, they depend on
the tax regulations of each country,
they depend on others, and there
is a certain margin or some
flexibility that allows you to report
a net profit greater or lesser.
You can play with the amortisations,
you can periodize
expenses and income.
However, the cash flow is a totally
objective magnitude, you can'
t incide on this, here there is no
adjustment that is valid, it
is the treasury or cash that has
been generated for a period
of time and there is no mechanism
to influence it.
I would say that the main difference
or the main conclusion
is that net profit does not
take into account the potential
liquidity problems a company
may have.
Well, it's very easy to say that
companies are reporting
a positive net profit and
are apparently in a situation
of bonanza, but have a lot of
trouble paying off their debts
or even paying off their
employees, their suppliers,
etc.
And what is this due to?
This is due to a number of circumstances
that we will be going to see.
One of them is that you do not
take into account the timing of
payments and charges, income and
expenses is not the same as payments
and charges, so you can give circumstances
like the one we will see.
Imagine a lawyer's office that is
the first year of life and has captured
a very powerful client to whom
it has billed a million dollars.
During that first year, he has
expenses worth $300,000,
three employees, offices,
etc.
He has a profit of $700,000
in his first year of life.
However, there is a problem, a problem
that the State of Results does not
consider and that is not considered
in the benefit and is that it has
not yet been charged from the customer
because a payment form has been
agreed in which the totality
of the payment, that is, the million
euros, will be perceived at
the end of the project.
As we are seeing, in this case the
magnitude of the profit has not
informed us of that liquidity problem
that the company has had.
So, go to the cash flow
and see.
We have a profit of $700,000.
However, what we have to do is
adjust and deduct that million
dollars that we haven't yet
collected.
Well, at the start of the activity
the partners put $100,
000 to capitalize the
company, but during this first
year a $200,000 mismatch
has occurred.
They have been forced to apply for
an additional debt because
they needed those $200,000 to
take on the 300,000 expenses
to pay employees, for example.
Another reason that net profit
is not able to reflect whether
we will have liquidity
problems or not is that it does
not reflect the necessary
investments in fixed assets,
unlike cash flow that considers
absolutely all charges
and all payments.
Let's look at another case.
In this case, we have a transport
company.
During the year, he has achieved
a result, a net profit of
$200,000.
However, the state of results,
the net profit doesn't inform us
is that it has been forced to
renew two trucks of its fleet to
be able to continue providing
the service to its customers.
These two trucks required
an investment of $300,000.
As we can see, a profit of 200,
000 minus an investment of $300,
000 has needed an additional
$100,000 to be able to fund
your activity.
Therefore, it has been forced to
make an additional capital increase
that it did not have in mind.
The partners had to take on or
put an additional $100,000 inside
the company to continue
operating.
As we see, it is another example that
the net profit was not providing
us with all the necessary information.
Let us see the last
circumstance that makes the
net profit not tell us about
possible treasury problems.
In this case, the net profit does not
reflect debt collection and debt
amortization payments.
Let us go to the previous case, the
case of the transport company.
He also has a profit
of $200,000, but that
year he wins a long-
term loan worth $250,000.
So, he was in a compromised
situation, as in the previous
case, with a negative cash
flow of $50,000 he had
to assume.
In this case, the partners had
to increase capital and provide
an additional $50,000 to the
company that they had not
planned to do.
In conclusion, what I would say
is that net profit is necessary.
The company must have a
positive result or profit.
It is a very important
part of cash flow.
However, it is a magnitude that
is necessary, but it is not enough.
Why is?
Why is it not enough?
Because it doesn't take into account
the variables we've seen before.
It doesn't take into account when
the collection and payments occur, it
doesn't take into account the investments
you have to make in fixed assets or
it doesn't take into account the
relationship with debt.
Cash flow is a measure
that provides a wider
or more real perspective
on the company's situation.
Subscribe to!